Christian Oudard

http://github.com/christian-oudard/
ChristianOudard@pm.me


It turns out that if you really understand something well, you can teach a
computer to do it. This has been a source of endless fascination for me
throughout my life, from the first time I taught my TI-86 calculator to play
chess in highschool.

For me it all starts with getting a precise understanding of what needs to
happen. I'm a great communicator and I thrive in collaboration. My code is well
organized and easy to read. In a team context, I'm often serving as the
translator between the worlds of technology and business, making technical
realities clear for strategic planning, and business intentions clear for
the techologists.

I've worked in a wide variety of fields, including game development, graphics
programming, server administration, databases, web frontend, cryptography, and
financial analysis.

Some of my favorite tools and technologies are:
* Linux
* Git
* Shell Script
* Python (Django, Pandas)
* Rust
* Haskell
* Cloud computing (GCP - Google Cloud Platform, AWS - Amazon Web Services)
* Databases (Postgres, MySQL, MongoDB, SQLite, Redis)
* Web frontend (HTML, CSS, JavaScript)
* LLMs - Large Language Models


== Work History ==

November 2017 - Present
Role: Software Consultant
Company:
    RHS Financial
    4171 24th St. St #101 San Francisco, CA 94114
    415-495-2900
Contacts: Colby Davis, Risley Sams
Technologies: Python, CVXPY, Postgres, Google Cloud, Pandas, FIX protocol

I and the lead quantitative analyst have built a sophisticated portfolio
optimization and live trading system. The automation I created reduced his
rebalance time per-client from a tedious 2-hour Excel process to a convenient
ten minutes. We use convex optimization to automate rebalancing of investments
for over 200 clients, and manage their trades on the NYSE via the FIX protocol.


May 16th 2021 - October 11th 2023
Role: Senior Software Engineer
Company:
    MobileCoin Inc.
    275 8th Street San Francisco, CA 94103
Contacts: Sara Drakeley, James Cape
Technologies: Rust, Python, Elliptic Curve Cryptography, gRPC, SQLite, SQLCipher, Intel SGX

As a member of the core blockchain team, I worked with a Rust codebase doing high
security cryptographic calculations, with over a billion dollars in wealth
depending on it. The most safety critical portions of the code communicate in a
decentralized consensus network, via secure enclaves. I specialized in the API
interface and encrypted database for cryptocurrency exchanges. All the code I wrote here
was open-source, so you can see my contributions here:
https://github.com/mobilecoinofficial/full-service.


March 13th 2017 - October 2017
Role: Engineer
Company:
    Bonsai AI
    2150 Shattuck Ave #1100, Berkeley, CA 94704
    510-900-1112
Contacts: Tod Frye, Ken Sedgwick, Matthew Haigh
Technologies: Python, Django, Docker, TensorFlow

I was a member of the backend engineering team, building an ML training and
inference service. It was based on a domain specific language to make ML
programming more accessible. Here I learned a great deal about optimization and
reinforcement learning theory, and helped implement new techniques from our
research team.


May 23rd 2016 - December 12th 2016
Role: Data Engineer
Company:
    Disqus
    301 Howard street suite 300
    San Francisco, CA 94105
Contacts: Adam Hitchcock, Phillip Pham, Jason Yan
Technologies: Postgres, SQL, Python, Django, JavaScript, React, AWS, Apache
    Kafka, Apache Storm, Apache Hive, Amazon Redshift

I worked here on the data team, writing and managing batch database jobs to
transform large data sets coming from their 500 million monthly
unique users. Our three-person data team was responsible for an analytics
pipeline handling tens of millions of events per day. My role was fairly
flexible, and I also helped with the Django backend and the React frontend.


July 2015 - September 2015
Role: Engineer
Company:
    Infer inc.
    444 Castro Street, Ste. 109
    Mountain View, CA 94041
Contact: Richard Mehlinger
Technologies: Python, Scikit-learn, CoffeeScript

Infer was a company which helped optimize sales pipelines via a Salesforce
plugin. We used machine learning to help sales teams prioritize which contacts
were most likely to convert into customers. My responsibility here was mainly
to write an internal user interface for the data engineers to develop their
ML models.


September 10th 2012 - January 2014
Role: Senior Backend Engineer
Company:
    TinyCo
    225 Bush Street, 19th floor
    San Francisco, CA 94104
Contacts: Karan P Singh, Robert Kotredes
Technologies: Python, Django, Tornado, MySQL

TinyCo creates free-to-play mobile games, focusing on cute characters and
time-locked game mechanics. I was working on the backend team. In collaboration
with the mobile frontend team, we released several games a year, each one
requiring its own backend code and database deployment. Here I coded complete
rewrites of several major systems, such as the code deployment system and game
configuration server. I also instituted the usage of better practices for
unittesting and database migrations.


January 2012 - August 2012
Role: Engineer
Company:
    Scribd Inc.
    539 Bryant St, Suite 200
    San Francisco, CA 94107
Contacts: Jennifer Lin, Jared Friedman
Technologies: Ruby on Rails, Javascript, HTML/CSS

Working as a full stack engineer, my responsibilities at Scribd included
the Scribd Developer API, internal mobile client API, and the embedded
document viewer.


October 2008 - January 2012
Role: Lead Software Developer
Company:
    PolicyStat, LLC
    1311 W. 96th St, Suite 250
    Indianapolis, IN 46260
Contacts: Wes Winham, Steve Ehrlich
Technologies: Python, Django, AWS, HTML/CSS, jQuery, Redis, MySQL

I joined PolicyStat at a very early stage, when there was just the CEO, the
CTO, and myself. Over my time there, our client base grew from two hospitals to
over a hundred. I did a little of everything here, including server
administration, Django backend, a responsive web frontend, and some help with
pitch decks. Notably, I developed an algorithm for diffing structured documents
in HTML, which you can see here: https://github.com/christian-oudard/htmltreediff


May 2008 - October 2008
Role: Web Developer
Company:
    BluegrassNet Development
    321 E Breckinridge St
    Louisville, KY 40203
Technologies: PHP

My first job out of college, it was a small custom web development shop in
PHP. We were making a trucking logistics platform for Tennessee Steel Haulers.


March 2008 - May 2008
Role: Software Engineering Intern
Project:
    Flight Data Simulator Project
    Speed School Computer Science Department
    University of Louisville
Contact: Ming Ouyang
Technologies: Python, PyOpenGL

This internship involved writing 3D renderings of flight landing approach paths.


October 2006 - March 2008
Role: Software Engineering Intern
Project:
    Concept Modeling Tool Suite
    at the Speed School Mechanical Engineering Department
    University of Louisville
Technologies: C#, DirectX

This project, in collaboration with the U.S. Army, aimed to design soldier
transport vehicles with reduced noise, vibration, and harshness
characteristics. I wrote the 3D user interface to the vehicle modeling program
we developed. The output was a vibration analysis produced by finite element
modeling. Read all about the project in the dissertation of one of our researchers:
https://ir.library.louisville.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?referer=&httpsredir=1&article=1816&context=etd


August 2005 - August 2006
Role: Software Engineering Intern
Company: Alcoa Louisville Foil Plant
Technologies: ASP.net, Microsoft Access

My work at the aluminum foil plant was to create data reporting pages for
internal usage. I created an up-to-the-minute reporting system showing the
readings from the foil mills, which roll sheet aluminum down to the thickness
of kitchen foil.
